Lorem ipsum (/ˌlɔː.rəm ˈɪp.səm/ LOR-əm IP-səm) is a dummy or placeholder text commonly
used in graphic design, publishing, and web development. Its purpose is to permit a page
layout to be designed, independently of the copy that will subsequently populate it, or
to demonstrate various fonts of a typeface without meaningful text that could be
distracting.

Lorem ipsum is typically a corrupted version of De finibus bonorum et malorum, a
1st-century BC text by the Roman statesman and philosopher Cicero, with words altered,
added, and removed to make it nonsensical and improper Latin. The first two words are
the truncation of dolorem ipsum ("pain itself").

Versions of the Lorem ipsum text have been used in typesetting since the 1960s, when
advertisements for Letraset transfer sheets popularized it.[1] Lorem ipsum was
introduced to the digital world in the mid-1980s, when Aldus employed it in graphic and
word-processing templates for its desktop publishing program PageMaker. Other popular
word processors, including Pages and Microsoft Word, have since adopted Lorem ipsum,[2]
as have many LaTeX packages,[3][4][5] web content managers such as Joomla! and
WordPress, and CSS libraries such as Semantic UI. Example text

A common form of Lorem ipsum reads:

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor
    incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud
    exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute
    irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla
    pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia
    deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

Source text

The Lorem ipsum text is derived from sections 1.10.32 and 1.10.33 of Cicero's De finibus
bonorum et malorum.[6][7] The physical source may have been the 1914 Loeb Classical
Library edition of De finibus, where the Latin text, presented on the left-hand (even)
pages, breaks off on page 34 with "Neque porro quisquam est qui do-" and continues on
page 36 with "lorem ipsum ...," suggesting that the galley type of that page was mixed
up to make the dummy text seen today.[1]

The discovery of the text's origin is attributed to Richard McClintock, a Latin scholar
at Hampden–Sydney College. McClintock connected Lorem ipsum to Cicero's writing sometime
before 1982 while searching for instances of the Latin word consectetur, which was
rarely used in classical literature.[2] McClintock first published his discovery in a
1994 letter to the Before & After magazine editor,[8] contesting the editor's earlier
claim that Lorem ipsum had no meaning.[2]

The relevant section of Cicero as printed in the source is reproduced below with
fragments used in Lorem ipsum highlighted. Letters in brackets were added to Lorem ipsum
and were not present in the source text:

    [32] Sed ut perspiciatis, unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium
    doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam eaque ipsa, quae ab illo inventore
    veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt, explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam
    voluptatem, quia voluptas sit, aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur
    magni dolores eos, qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt, neque porro quisquam est,
    qui dolorem ipsum, quia dolor sit amet consectetur adipisci[ng] velit, sed quia non
    numquam [do] eius modi tempora inci[di]dunt, ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam
    quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima veniam, quis nostrum[d] exercitationem ullam
    corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi ut aliquid ex ea commodi consequatur? [D]Quis
    autem vel eum i[r]ure reprehenderit, qui in ea voluptate velit esse, quam nihil
    molestiae consequatur, vel illum, qui dolorem eum fugiat, quo voluptas nulla
    pariatur?

    [33] At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus, qui blanditiis
    praesentium voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti, quos dolores et quas molestias
    excepturi sint, obcaecati cupiditate non provident, similique sunt in culpa, qui
    officia deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorum fuga. Et harum quidem
    reru[d]um facilis est e[r]t expedita distinctio. Nam libero tempore, cum soluta
    nobis est eligendi optio, cumque nihil impedit, quo minus id, quod maxime placeat
    facere possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor repellend[a]us.
    Temporibus autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis aut rerum necessitatibus saepe
    eveniet, ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae. Itaque earum
    rerum hic tenetur a sapiente delectus, ut aut reiciendis voluptatibus maiores alias
    consequatur aut perferendis doloribus asperiores repellat.

What follows is H. Rackham's translation, as printed in the 1914 Loeb edition, with
words at least partially represented in Lorem ipsum highlighted:[7]

    [32] But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of reprobating pleasure
    and extolling pain arose. To do so, I will give you a complete account of the system
    and expound the teachings of the great explorer of the truth, the master-builder of
    human happiness. No one rejects, dislikes or avoids pleasure itself, because it is
    pleasure, but because those who do not know how to pursue pleasure rationally
    encounter extremely painful consequences. Nor again is there anyone who loves or
    pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself, because it is pain, but occasionally
    circumstances occur in which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To
    take a trivial example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise,
    except to obtain some advantage? But who has any right to find fault with a man who
    chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a
    pain that produces no resultant pleasure?

    [33] On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who
    are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded
    by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue;
    and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will,
    which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are
    perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice
    is untrammeled and nothing prevents us from being what we like best, every pleasure
    is welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the
    claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that
    pleasures must be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man, therefore,
    always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures
    to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains.

See also

    Asemic writing – Wordless open semantic form of writing Etaoin shrdlu – Common
    metal-type printing error Gibberish – Nonsensical speech or writing Hamburgevons –
    Text used as a sample for assessing fonts Indian-head test pattern – Television test
    card Lenna – Unauthorized standard test image Li Europan lingues – Placeholder text
    in Interlingue Metasyntactic variable – Placeholder term used in computer science
    Pangram – Sentence using every letter of alphabet
        The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog – Sentence containing all letters of
        the English alphabet
    Shibboleth – Custom or tradition that distinguishes one group from another "To come"
    – Phrase used in publishing to indicate missing material Utah teapot – Computer
    graphics 3D reference and test model

References

Cibois, Philippe (2012-06-03). "Lorem ipsum: nouvel état de la question". L'intelligence
du monde. L'Institut français. Retrieved 2017-04-07. Adams, Cecil (February 2001). "What
does the filler text 'lorem ipsum' mean?". The Straight Dope. Retrieved 3 June 2022.
"LaTeX lipsum package". Retrieved 23 September 2017. "LaTeX blind text package".
Retrieved 23 September 2017. "How to insert sample text into a document in Word".
Microsoft Support. 18 September 2011. Archived from the original on 12 January 2012.
Retrieved 14 November 2011. "Description of the "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet" text that
appears in Word Help". support.microsoft.com. Retrieved 2007-03-22. Cicero, Marcus
Tullius; Rackham, H. (1914). De finibus bonorum et malorum (in Latin and English). New
York: Macmillan Co. p. 36 (Book I ix 32).

    Before & After 4:2, according to Norman Walsh. "Frequently Asked Questions About
    Fonts". Retrieved 2023-05-12.

External links Lorem ipsum at Wikipedia's sister projects

    Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons Texts from Wikisource

    The original De finibus bonorum et malorum (Book 1) from Cicero, on Latin Wikisource

    vte

Standard test items

    vte

Typography Categories:

    Filler textLatin words and phrasesNonsenseCicero

    This page was last edited on 17 April 2025
